Okay, we're talking to Karen on my left, and Paula on my right, in the middle.
This is the university library.
It doesn't have a formal name, right, I guess?
That's its formal name.
It has no donor's name on the floor.
If you know of one.
Too late for Andrew Carnegie, I guess.
Yeah, a little too late for Carnegie, yeah.
Mark was famous.
There's talk that this building might be replaced.
I hope that's not the case.
It's a beautiful building.
Oh, no, no, no, no.
It renovated.
Renovated would be nice.
Reorganized in a way, because have you been on a tour of the building?
No, that's right.
Well, you'll get a tour of the building?
We're going to go up to Rare Books and up to the fourth floor.
Okay.
Well, just seeing the fourth floor will give you an idea of why it needs to be rethought.
There's little nooks and crannies and little classrooms.
Yeah.
The literature says that you have nine million books here?
Nine million volumes, yeah.
That's amazing.
Yeah, yeah.
In fact, I hope you can get it back in the stacks.
We have time.
We have a closed stack, and we also have a huge compact shelving facility, which is full to the brim.
And we have remote storage areas just tucked all over the place.
Did you have any outside storage?
No, I wish we did.
No, we desperately need it.
It's really...
But things are very packed in.
Remote storage.
This book, I hope, is going to have all of these phrases.
Ah.
And also in the electronic field, you know, migration and refreshing.
Yes, in fact, I had my fill of all those.
Emulation.
Emulation is the new one.
I just came back from the Coalition on Networked Information.
conference, and you have all those words plus all those acronyms.
Would you like to touch a book?
Yes, yes.
Even the acronym speakers get the acronyms mixed up, you know, so it's just a bunch of alphabets.
And if you don't know what people are talking about, migration, you think you're talking about birds.
But it's very interesting.
I'm going out to L.A.
again to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
There's supposedly over a million reels of magnetic tape from the Viking mission.
And 20% of it is unreadable now.
Because magnetic taste is not a very reliable one.
Well, apparently that's an area that you, when you go to these conferences, they're sort of hot topics, and apparently preservation of digital information is now rising to the top of the hot topic.
In fact, the last session of this meeting was thrown together on short notice because the speaker who was supposed to come failed, got sick, and couldn't come.
That was who?
Ruffinburn?
He seems to be there.
No, no.
He's quoted everywhere.
I'd have to look.
It was a woman, and she... And Kenny, it's a quail.
I have her stuff, I'm sure.
You see, it's just a big name.
Well, I think it was mentioned in this thrown together panel.
It was Cliff Lynch, who's the president of CNI now, put together this panel at the last minute.
And some of the speakers, or one of the speakers, mentioned her.
The person was supposed to come.
She was going to talk on the holodeck and... Oh, the woman from MIT.
Murray is her name, maybe?
Yeah, she has a book called Hamlet on the Holodeck.
Okay.
That's probably it.
She was heartbroken that she couldn't come.
She's good.
She really was very interested in talking about it.
What was the name of that conference?
Pardon me?
It's called The Coalition on Networked Information.
And this was their spring task force meeting.
Do they have a public relations person named there, just by chance?
Joan Lippincott, I think, would be the person you'd want to talk to, who's the executive secretary or something like that.
I can give you the title and all of that.
His phone number would be good.
Here, in fact, is the key contact.
It's right here.
Oh, great.
Super.
Associate Executive Staff Director.
They have an email.
Oh, that's even better.
Clifford Lynch?
Yeah.
Clifford Lynch is quite a guru.
I mean, he's a person who, you know, talks.
He was here, in fact, not too long ago talking.
A guru in what respect?
Well, he's very, you know, well thought of and very... He strikes me as the sort of person who reads a great deal and is that kind of a pundit, you know, who sort of draws together a lot of ideas.
And kind of conceptualizes the future, I think.
Yeah, and it identifies the issues, the major issues.
This is the one to get, I guess.
Yeah, I think so.
I can give you the Task Force membership list, I mean, any of the stuff that you want, any of the handouts that you want.
I'll have them send me one of these kits, actually, and I'll call them.
I'm sure they'll be happy to do that.
Yeah, I'm sure they will.
So, nine million books.
I just did a piece for this good little magazine, which I write a monthly column for.
the current one is the University of Toronto where they have 10 million books, but Toronto has what they call a dedicated budget for books.
Do you have a dedicated budget for book acquisition?
I don't know.
What do they mean by that?
It means that regardless of how much money you might have to commit, say, to the acquisition of the electronic things, are you still going to guarantee yourself
that you'll have enough money to buy the books that you need in a given year.
Well, we never have enough money to buy the books we need.
We don't sacrifice books for the sake of electronics, if that's what you need.
I mean, we're not that far along with it, I wouldn't say.
Well, but we don't have that kind of an official statement, I don't think.
No, we're really, I mean, I think along with all the other research libraries, we're at the mercy of the marketplace a lot of times.
huge number of journal subscriptions, and with that inflation, they're really hard-pressed intense.
And journals have been going down dramatically over in recent years, haven't they?
What, the cost?
Well, the cost has been going up, but the subscriptions have been going down.
You mean the number of out there?
Yeah.
Yeah, we've had to do lots of journal cancellations, and we're a heavy science school, agriculture, engineering, you know, chemistry, biology, that sort of thing, so they're very, very expensive.
But that really is where the online area is good in the science.
Yeah, that is where the electronic vendors, of course, are putting most of their information because they see a commercial market for them, whereas there is little commercial market in the humanities.
But one of the interesting developments that was announced at this conference is that the NSF is now turning its attention to the humanities.
They have kicked off...
There's been a digital library initiative which has so far, I think, focused particularly on scientific technical information.
And now they are opening it up to all kinds of subject areas in what, I think it's phase three of this.
Again, there was a presentation on this at this meeting.
And they're really encouraging the humanities to apply.
And I went to another panel discussion in which,
They tried to identify what were the unique... People always say, well, the humanities have huge information problems in relation to electronic information.
And, you know, it's kind of one of these clichés that's bound to be found.
And they were trying to get at, you know, what are these unique factors that make the humanities different from the sciences in terms of information representation and information retrieval.
And that was kind of an interesting philosophical, quite abstract discussion
that I listened to, and I wasn't entirely sure that I understood it all.
But, I mean, it basically, what they think they were trying to say is that humanity's sources have layered into them, or the study of them has layered into it the perspective of the time in which they were created and the times in which they then are then reinterpreted, and none of these interpretations or views
go away they're all still in the study of this object or this humanity source and they all have to be represented in some way there was another i thought very interesting discussion of this kind i mean another area that's really taking off is imaging the the representation of images and particularly a lot of cooperative projects dealing with museum images there was a metal project that was funded by getty
and now there's this new one called Amico, and they were talking about the fact that, well, they showed a reproduction in electronic form of a mummy, and, you know, there are so many things to know about this mummy.
You know, there's the person who is the mummy, then there's the mummy case itself, which is an artwork, then there's the
the study of Egyptology in relation to the mummy.
There's the study of medicine in relation to mummification.
No, there's a CD?
No, this is just talking about how if you put this image in an online database, you have to have
some kind of what they keep calling metadata, which is another one of these words like emulation, metadata, you have to have some, and a cataloger could obviously speak to this, you have to have some information that leads someone who's looking to the, you have to have pointers that lead someone who is looking for, say, the medical aspects of this mummy to this particular mummy.
I mean, I don't know how true it is that you would meet a medical person
would have to know about this specific mummy if they were studying mummifaction, but you know, you could get the general idea.
So you have to have some pointers that take you to this part of the information about this object, and then you have to have other pointers which take you to the information about the jewelry the mummy is wearing.
Basically what footnotes used to do for us in books, maybe.
Yeah, to some extent I guess that's true.
Anyway, I guess the woman who is the executive director, maybe, of this project was saying that they had accumulated 75 files of detailed information about the mummy.
What was the name of the project?
This is called the Amico Project.
A-M-I-C-A.
Yeah.
And again, if you want information on that, I have a bunch of .
It's going to have a chance to meet with Beth Sandor.
Oh, okay.
And she's going to show him the project she's working on.
Well, I mean, electronic stuff is terrific.
And the thing it does, Broward does magnificently, you know.
I mean, the OED is never going to be printed again, you know.
Do you think that the Encyclopedia Britannica, they belong online where the information is constantly being kept?
You'll find that these very arcane monographs and professional books that cost a fortune to buy and only sell an edition of 300 copies, why shouldn't they be published on
What an interesting thing that occurred here.
We went to journal cancellations in the last year, and you know, you have a notion that scientists in particular are going to be very, very warmly receive electronic materials, but you know, they really, the chemists on this campus, for example, wanted no part of the notion that they might not have the hard copy
of journals and whatever.
Okay.
And have the potential of either getting full text electronically or document delivery.
That was not okay.
And they were very vehement and very clear about that.
Did they carry the date?
Oh, indeed.
They got the campus to give us money to restore most of our journals.
Well, you know, there's another level of that, which is even more astonishing, and that is that we subscribe to
The Science Citation Index online, and there's a very strong feeling, and that's an index.
You know, that's something that you would think they would want online, and the value added of having it online was so great that they would be willing to get that.
What is it called Science?
Science Citation Index.
And it's a massive index.
It's very complex, and we had to cancel the print copy in order to pay for this, because it's quite expensive.
How much is it just at a curiosity?
Well, we purchased, this is the Institute of Scientific Information, ISI, publishes three such indexes.
One is science, one is social science, and one is humanities.
And we bought them through a consortial arrangement with ISI.
And so they all came together in one product, which ISI is calling the Web of Science, a very unfortunate name.
Sure is.
Again, I'd have to look up the exact number for you, and it is a consortial bargain.
But I think we're paying something like $50,000 a year for that set of indexes.
So we had $25,000 or so sunk in the print versions of SANE.
And $50,000 for the electronic?
Versions per year.
I see.
And let me just ask a quick question.
50,000 a year.
Now, what if you decide not to take it next year?
You've paid for access to this stuff.
Do you lose access to it?
Is that 50,000 going?
In the case of ISI, we negotiated, or CIC, the consortium that we're a part of, which is the Big Ten Library, negotiated that we would actually own that data so that if we do cancel that particular subscription,
we could take that data and put it up on our local system.
So you could keep what you've already paid for it.
In that case, yes, but that is a real issue.
And we are getting this over the web.
So I'm not quite sure how that would in truth work, you know, whether they would, whether we would actually be able to get this data.
And it wouldn't be as much use to, I mean, you know, if you subscribe to something electronically for a year and then you have one year's worth of a file,
It isn't of much use to you.
I suppose.
It's like having a run of serials.
Well, I mean, a run of serials is different, but you'd have to go.
It would be very, eventually that data would simply not be used because people would be, well, it depends on what you replace it with.
There is no replacement for this particular index, so the only reason to cancel is if you want to go back to the print.
And so what you'd have is people... But I'm saying, what if that decision were to be made?
I mean, it's a small part.
I'm just curious.
Well, we think about that kind of thing.
No, but what I'm doing is reinforcing your point in that even if you owned that electronic data, eventually, or very soon, it would become useless because it would be just one isolated year and no one would look at it.
It's so service-oriented.
I mean, you want people to go all over the place for stuff.
So what happened?
You canceled the print, and did you have an opinion to it?
Well, there is a certain amount of negative feedback from, especially chemistry, I believe, about canceling the print of Science Citation Index.
That's where it was housed, so they would finish it.
Oh, that's right, yeah.
So what happened?
Well, I don't think that's been resolved yet, actually.
I think that's waiting to get attention.
We truly don't have the money.
Do you do deaccession books?
Occasionally.
Do you have a policy on that?
We do, yeah.
We have a regular withdrawal policy, and, of course, we're a state institution, so it's rather bureaucratic withdrawal policy.
These books are actually property of the state.
But at the University of Michigan, other, you know, half a solo, in fact, I was talking to this fellow Don Riggs, who's since left, and he was talking about a policy.
I don't know if they ever implemented it.
I'm going to have to find out.
I'm curious.
But if a book hadn't been withdrawn within five years, it was circulated.
Oh, no.
I can't believe that.
Michigan?
Michigan.
The new library isn't even called a library.
I mean, it's student information, something.
I don't know.
Oh, we would never do that.
No, we would never do that.
And in fact, we just had some real breast-beating conversations in a collection meeting about...
about whether or not we could afford with our with our storage situation to keep more than one copy of the book you know i mean people want to keep as many copies and they don't care you know if we have ten copies of your book and they all look exactly the same people have very strong feelings so they keep all kind of really yeah yeah i can almost understand that you know um yeah oh yeah it's just that you know when you have nobody's using
Yeah, it's really, people feel very, very strongly.
I thought we were a very collection-oriented group of people here.
Yeah, we are a very collection-oriented library, and it's, I think, partly, and this was advanced for the reason for this outcry on the part of the science faculty, was that the university was founded out here in the middle of cornfield.
And, you know, the idea of having a great library here to attract scholars was, you know, sort of,
part of the mythology at this point.
From the beginning?
From the beginning, absolutely.
And, you know, there's a story about President, can I tell this story correctly?
I don't know.
President James, who, you know, went and got so and so many dollars and bought a hundred books.
Oh, that's right, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, that's all in our... Is this something I can get?
Yeah, you can get... It's the kind of thing I've used, by the way.
Yeah, you can use... It's my kind of anecdote, and I love these stories.
Because, really, what does occasion
the placement of nine million books in the middle of the country.
Oh, no, this is the vision of the first president of the university.
He realized that in all this day, there's a whole story about why the university got cited here in the middle of the state.
I mean, there's a big political competition and everything.
But he recognized that you couldn't have a university in a place like this without a great library.
Right, because we are so isolated.
We're not close to Chicago.
I mean, a hundred years ago, we weren't close to Chicago or St.
Louis or any of the other centers like that.
Well, that story can be easily provided.
Is there anything written on it?
Well, I'm thinking, what's his face?
He's doing the history of the university.
Oh, it's probably in his book, Wynton Fulberg.
Wynton Fulberg.
We might even pass him in the hall.
He might actually pass it.
He is now S-O-L-B-E-R-G, and his first name is Wynton, and the history of the university is in the reference department.
I'm sure we probably have 10 copies of it in the stacks, too.
Oh, I'm sure we did.
It was published.
It was published, I'm sure, by the university, perhaps, quite a while ago.
It's only the first, he's working on the second volume.
It was only the first so-and-so many years of the history.
I see.
It was mentioned last night that you had a, was it a president or a librarian who bought so many books?
A librarian.
Dean Downs, probably.
Yeah.
Robert Downs.
You see his portrait hanging out.
Yeah.
His attitude was, in fact, a lot of it wasn't even catalogued.
He put it in a rearing?
That was a new word.
Cataloguing a rearing, yeah.
Yeah, it was just a Kellyanne backlog, yeah, which probably continues to this day.
I don't know.
He must have really been acquiring a frenetic case.
Oh, going to Europe.
I remember Mariana Tolden talking one time about some of the people who come from the Soviet Union and how many books we had actually saved from
pre-World War II destruction, and they're just sitting in our stocks.
I'm having a chapter on emigre collections.
That's very interesting to me.
This is our Saudi collection, in fact, is one of the premier collections.
He acquired this, this library?
Well, I think just getting immigrants coming here and, you know, scholarly people coming here.
I think you'd want to be careful.
You need to talk to Mariana about it.
The Slavik Collection has its own special history.
Yeah, the Slavik Collection.
Mariana?
Mariana Cholden was right next door here.
It was part of the C-H-O-L-D-I-N, Mariana Tax, Cholden.
You know, get the tax.
Tax?
Yeah, it's called tax.
He's the famous sociologist, I understand.
How did he spell tax?
As in tax.
As in yesterday, right?
There was a lot of state departments for the Slavic Library and the Cold War.
This is material that was acquired during the Soviet period?
Is it pre-revolutionary stuff, or is it... In many cases.
Yeah, I would say so.
But again, I think we're... Yeah, I think you should ask, Marianna, if you're interested, but my impression is that some of the really fine stuff that we have were just sort of personal libraries, you know, that so many people fleeing Europe.
So how did they get here?
Well, I mean, places... I worked at Ohio State for a while, and, you know, sat there cataloging next to a man who was a judge in Latvia, and, you know, I mean, people just...
came to the Midwest and found new lives and, you know, a lot of them were very learned.
Well, this area has a huge Eastern European population.
Indeed, yeah.
Exactly.
It does, of course.
It's a lot of family.
Well, another factor in the building of this library that shouldn't be ignored was the faculty in New World.
There are legendary faculty who built collections here.
their own collections which they then gave to the university well that happens too but in the great collection building days they were building them for the university by going on buying trips and but they were given the money and the and the authorization and the mandate to go do it that's really exciting yeah yeah that's really quite common is this stuff that i'll be able to get
Oh, yeah.
It's great stuff.
I mean, I've used it.
This is precisely the kind of stuff.
That particular kind of thing isn't unique to Illinois.
I mean, I think you would find that in all of the great... It is, but you have to find stories.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah, in the library histories, you'd find all sorts of things about that.
I'll do a little work for you.
Well, that'd be great.
Send you some bibliography or something.
I'm writing right now.
I'm having a...this whole...this new book is...I'm looking for a...
a phrase to describe what it is, but it's this book culture.
And, of course, they add the arrival of the electronic stuff, but I've been to all the new national libraries, the new British and the new French.
We haven't even talked about preservation much ado for brittle books and stuff.
You know, there's so many wonderful, the thing about this collection is that it truly has an enormous number of
quite rare books that in many collections might be in a special collection of some kind, and they're just sitting in our stacks because we don't have the facility or the, you know, just the procedures or the money to care for them.
I'm surprised you don't build an off-site storage thing.
Well, we keep talking about it.
It was almost a reality.
My dream now is to try to get some of the other state libraries to just go and build a huge tower in a cornfield and let us all take a part in it, you know.
Well, just put one up in an apple orchard.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, you know.
Harvard, this chapter I'm starting in the Harvard Depository, where they have already six of these.
Oh, yeah, that must be fascinating.
And that's now the Harvard model, which is something I'm selling it on.
And so on.
And this is a facility that will hold 20 million books.
Yeah.
So I'm starting there, and then the guy takes me through, and then I go with Ken Carpenter at Harvard, and we go through the Widener stacks, and we're picking books to go up to the department.
This is a big deal.
I mean, he said, I really take this so seriously.
Oh, absolutely.
I'm really influencing the way scholarship is going to be.
That's right.
If you take a book out of immediate circulation, and he mentioned, I don't want to talk to myself, I'm going to be quick.
There's a whole thing when you, I'm an ex-cataloger.
That might even make a good chapter title, you know.
Oh, it's nice.
Yeah.
There's this whole idea when, I'm an ex-cataloger, and you think about this idea of concatenation, and how books fall together on a shelf, and, you know, the meaning of putting a certain call number on a book, and the influence of how people use it, because of serendipity.
I totally maintain that in this book, the most exciting books I found were never the ones I went into the Widener Stacks to get.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I would go in, you know, you do your search, and you go in with your list, and then you go in and you'd be sitting there, and all of a sudden, you know, your eye would go over here, and this is the one that's really exciting.
This is the one with the good stuff.
You've never heard of this book before.
You didn't know it existed.
And it happens time and time and time again.
Well, I was going to tell my research story about, and it really revolves more around convenience, because I've done research in the past on the influence of women on the foundation of public libraries in the United States, and we have in this library, it so happens, probably the most extensive collection of state library commission reports dating way back to the beginning of the 20th century.
and also public library annual reports.
So when I was doing this research, all I would have to do would be to go to 021 point whatever the call number, I don't remember quite now, the next two digits for state libraries or history of states in relation to libraries.
And I could just go from shelf to shelf and find all these commission reports.
And then as far as the public library annual reports were, I mean, they were all just under the call number and then organized alphabetically.
So I wanted to see if we had
San Antonio Public Library report, I'd just go to his call number and look under S, and there would be, or would not be.
I mean, I found amazing things that way.
And it's a stunning collection for somebody who happens to be doing research in this area.
And, you know, who would know?
I mean, that's the kind of thing where
People would go into the stacks to weed things, and they'd say, public library annual reports.
Who would ever use these?
Oh, yeah.
Well, what are they useful for?
Well, for me, they were useful in actually tracing the history of how these libraries had been founded by women, and in this particular article I was writing, which I was trying to— Is this published?
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
I have two articles on this subject.
Could I get the citations for them?
I'd give you copies if you want.
Where was I?
Oh, the second article I was writing was I was trying to demonstrate how often women were involved in the Carnegie Library grant to obtain a public library in their city.
And so I had to, I knew what the Carnegie libraries were, and so it was easy then to go again to the shelves and see what I could find.
I wrote a particular one that I was looking for, too.
I mean, where I knew there was an interesting story.
And so I found, you know, a lot of,
details for these interesting anecdotal stories by going to these annual reports.
I'm sorry to interrupt, but we're getting close at the time.
This is too good.
I know.
You can stay here and we can push everything back.
What's up next?
Barbara Jones in the Red Book Room.
Oh, you'll definitely have to talk to Barbara.
Can we have five more minutes?
Absolutely.
You make sure that Barbara shows you the Milton collection.
I'll do that before.
Yes, as a matter of fact, I'm not carrying this away in great time.
But once again, explain how you do organize the catalog things to reinforce this whole concept of serendipity.
Oh, it's just the idea of concatenation, that you put call numbers on books and they fall together.
How do you work on making the selection?
Well, it's the judgment calls, really.
I mean, you have to...
You look at the subjects, you think about how they interrelate, and you look at all the other subjects that you own.
I remember somebody saying to me once that when you have a very small collection, one book becomes very, very important.
So if you're in a very small public library, you have a book on birth control, it better be a really damn fine book because it really fills the whole area of birth control.
But in a library like this, you get a book on birth control,
You could stick it with women's history, you could stick it with medicine, you could stick it with social issues, you know, and you have to think about who's going to use it the most.
Yeah, that's a little tricky.
Yeah.
Barbara mentioned last night, we had dinner last night, but you just got this grant to build a Jewish Hebrew or Yiddish collection.
Oh, yeah.
Well, we have one, actually, and I used to be the Jewish Studies bibliographer and not as a sort of
tag on to my other jobs, and I've been very grateful to give it to people like Barbara Jones, who are much more scholarly and knowledgeable about Jewish studies than I am.
But we have an absolutely unbelievable Yiddish and Jewish Studies collection that you would never guess, because we don't have a program here, but somebody had given us a
a strong collection of Yiddish books, and now we've had a huge... These are books that you had, apparently?
We've already got them, and then a couple came along and gave our university and University of Illinois in Chicago a huge, huge endowment in Jewish studies, and some of that money can go to the library, and we have endowed chairs, and say, like, we have one in Yiddish literature, and we discovered in bringing the candidates in, and they were taking them through what we already own, and he...
You know, this man is saying, oh, it's a wonderful, wonderful collection here.
It's not cataloged.
It's down in our sub-basement.
This is kind of material that was acquired by this librarian, apparently.
This is material that was here.
Well, a lot of the Yiddish stuff was, the Yiddish literature that we have was given to us through some connections from a bookstore up in Chicago.
Oh, no, in the last...
Do you remember the name of the bookstore?
No, no, no, I don't.
It may have even been Chicago Public, Natalie.
Maybe the bookstore bought it from Chicago Public and then gave it back to the store.
See, people think that books are not going to matter that much anymore, but stature really does derive from your collection, doesn't it?
Oh, it does, and it's magnetic, too.
And numbers matter, too.
There's a sort of magnetism, so you get one little collection of books, and then suddenly, you know, it's like they're
They find a home.
It's like when you get one cat, they send out the words, it's an okay place to be, and suddenly you have seven cats.
I want to tell you a little story before you leave.
It has to do with you, actually.
You wrote an article in Civilization.
Anne-Marie.
No mistakes, I hope.
I was telling the story of this article at a reception for the provost who was leaving, and I was telling the story to Jack Zillinger and Nina Boehm.
Jack Zillinger is a Keith scholar, and Nina Boehm is an American literature, American fiction, women's history
And I said I read this wonderful article about Sendak and how he didn't feel that he was almost worthy of reading Shakespeare and reading Keats, but that eventually he had this depression.
I think that's what you said.
That's exactly right.
And that he had decided that there was a way to get out of that and to read these authors that he had sort of saved for himself in a way.
So I was telling this story to Jack because I thought being a well-known Keats scholar, he would think this was very interesting.
So then his wife said, well, and you know, he called Jack when he started his reading of Keats.
And Jack, who was a very wonderful person and probably would never have told this story himself, said, yes, it was so amazing to talk to this marvelously intelligent and wonderful man.
who was asking me questions like a high school kid.
You want me to trump that story?
When I was there, I told him, I said, gee, I'm doing an interview with Helen Bedlick.
He said, can you put me in touch with Helen Bedlick?
And I said, well, I'll ask you.
I'm sure I can.
And I said, Dr. Bedlick, I'd like to give you a call to talk about Keith.
He said, you want to talk to me about Keith?
she said i'd love to i don't know what happened i gave him her phone number i'm sure he contacted her well i don't know how he got i'm curious to know and i didn't ask them probably the same way he got helen's number somebody probably told him he does he does pick but he's going to be in my new book i'm going to have a chapter on readers um maurice sundack umberto echo i just did a piece on him for bibliography tilly olson who i met out in san francisco you know tilly olson
She was 85 years old.
She wrote Silences.
Oh, right.
Totally self-taught.
Never graduated from high school.
Brilliant, you know, writer.
Her books totally read to death.
And she's just a very, very interesting story.
I wanted to see her about the San Francisco Library because she was one of the great supporters.
And then all of a sudden the collections are disappearing and going off to the... It's going to be a fun book.
Oh, yeah.
What's your timetable for that?
It's pretty soon.
I mean, they want it, but I hope she wants it.
We're talking to Barbara Jones on my left, and Lynn Fores, you pronounce it, Fores?
Mm-hmm.
Let me just ask Lynn briefly, how old are you, Lynn?
I'm 23.
I'll be 24 in October.
Okay, and you're from Worcester, Massachusetts?
I am.
And where did you go to undergraduate?
I did my undergraduate at Smith College.
I graduated in 1996.
And what did you study there?
I was a double major in comparative literature and French literature.
And...
You're here because you want to be a librarian, is that right?
Yes, that's right.
I got a job in the rare book room at Smith's as part of my work study, and that was when I started handling rare books, and I got addicted.
It's like an urge now.
Was Michelle there at the time?
She was not, actually.
I started working under Karen Coquille, and Ruth Mortimer was still alive, but she was ill at the time.
So I only saw her very, very briefly.
I didn't really know her there well.
The legendary Ruth Mortimer.
It was under her influence, but I didn't actually see her much.
And then Michelle came my senior year, so actually it was really fun because meeting Michelle was great, and
I ended up sort of showing her the ropes in terms of finding her way around the collection, and I did the tours that year for the undergrads and other people who came in because she didn't really have as much of a grasp on what we had in terms of pulling out the high pieces and things to impress people, stuff like that.
And Martin Antonetti is there now.
That's right.
Very interesting.
I mean, here we are approaching the year 2000.
Do you really think there's a future in this point of work?
Oh, I hope so, because otherwise I'm in trouble.
That's a great quote.
Do you hope to work on an institutional level in special collections or what?
My goal when I grow up is to be Barbara or to be Michelle in the sense of to be a curator in a rare book library.
I need to do a couple more degrees before that really happens and get a whole lot more experience, but that's my eventual goal.
What I love is working with these amazing pieces of history.
There's just nothing that quite replicates
the feeling of holding a 16th century book in your hand.
It's just the most amazing sensation, or even earlier, you know.
It's wonderful that the young people to be so enthusiastic about books.
I love what I do.
It makes me so incredibly happy.
Now, are you a collector of books?
And you don't have to be.
I wish I were.
I'm a vicarious collector.
I don't have the money to collect yet.
But you collect
I collect textbooks.
Most librarians really aren't.
They get their satisfaction handling the stuff.
I can't afford to collect.
I wish I could.
I have lots of things I would love to own.
Well, would you say it was your experience at Smith then that got you interested in this?
I think so.
I grew up using, you know, the public libraries in Worcester, and I had lots of great librarians at our little branch, and I was always encouraged to read as a child, and so I've been a book lover since God only knows Glenn.
But I think that getting the job at Smith in the Rare Book Library, which, you know, when I applied for it, I was like, gee, this looks like a neat room.
It might be a cool place to work.
I guess I'll try for it.
You know, I like poetry.
They've got poets here.
Sure.
kind of thing.
It was really random, but it was the best thing that happened to me.
It was really just an amazing experience working with primary materials.
Just completely changed my life, my view of literature, you know, changed everything.
And now I'm just consumed by it.
It's great.
I do manuscript processing now.
I get to read people's mail for a living.
It's wonderful.
Just prior to graduation, you decided you were going to go to library school, right?
Really?
Yeah.
What happened was... So what was the short list of schools?
Well, my jump into library school was kind of a strange one because when I was finishing up at Smith, I applied to PhD programs in comparative literature thinking that I'd be a professor.
And I got rejected by five of the best programs in the country.
And I still have their rejection letters just in case I ever decide to try again so that I can, you know, see if it works and, you know,
Just remember that I've been rejected by five of the best.
Rejection builds character.
Yes, it does.
And I had the wall of shame outside my dorm room so that everyone could see the rejection letters.
It was very amusing.
And at that point, I sat down with Michelle and I said, what am I going to do with my life?
I need to do something.
I need to support myself.
And she looked at me.
She said, what about library school?
And I went, huh, I never thought of that.
And so at that point, she encouraged me to apply to UCLA, where she teaches.
And I got in, but I was too late to get federal aid, to get financial aid or funding or anything like that, and since my parents can't help me, you know, this is entirely me funding myself through school, I didn't go, even though I got accepted.
I decided to wait a year, and I applied for jobs, and the job at the library company came up, and through many wonderful things, I got it, and decided to work for a while and see if I could
Were you selling the books at the library company?
I was not selling the books.
I was sitting at the table for a little while, yes.
I'm everywhere.
I'm just going to follow you.
That's fine.
You're good luck.
But I went to the library company, and I worked there for about a year, and then I decided to try again for library school.
And my Urbana Choice was, again, influenced by Michelle, because I said, Michelle, you know, I don't really want to move all the way to California.
She's like, well, what about, you know, Illinois?
And I said, huh.
She said, it's the best program in the country.
You know, it's number one right now.
And I said, hmm, that's something to take into consideration.
And so what makes it the best program?
Do you want the honest answer?
The honest answer is that it's the number one program, as far as I understand it, by default, because Columbia closed and the University of Chicago closed.
That's as far as I understand it.
In terms of being a rare book person, it's no better or no worse than any other program.
I could have essentially gone anywhere as long as I could get an assistantship in
rare books, but the fact that I had a really good chance of doing so here was a big factor.
That and the assistantship paid my tuition.
It's really, really kind of shameful, isn't it, Columbia?
Mm-hmm.
You know, Dewey and this, this, this, this stuff.
That's where I went.
Yeah.
Well, the problem is that... Where I went, I was a very religious program.
Library schools don't make any money.
I mean, librarians, on the whole, who own traditional librarianship, don't make any money.
That's why Columbia basically closed the family.
That's right.
Because the alums weren't rich.
exactly no rich alums means that's exactly what i asked terry why absolutely no money i said that's not supposed to make decisions on the basis of that are you excuse me but that's what happens alums don't make any money so they don't give any and the people who are in the information science end of things now who are making money um if they're in the corporate librarianship end of things they tend to sort of look at this as a necessary hoop but really a waste of their time it's just a piece of paper
um and then they don't want to give any money to this program either but so even though these other two it's by default but still what makes you better than what you say is stronger than the others probably the assistantships um most people who are admitted are guaranteed at least a quarter time of assistantship and the assistantship comes down to professional experience which is what you need for a library job the mls is a piece of paper unfortunately at this point it's not really well considered even by people within the field to be an important degree it's
Everyone that I've talked to is sort of like well it's a hoop you need to jump through and that's a shame because it is a year of schooling and it could be made a lot more academic, a lot more intensive and a lot more useful.
Right now it's sort of a practical degree that gives you the jargon that you already knew but you need the piece of paper.
The assistantships here though provide real professional experience and when you're applying for jobs that's what you need because that's what they're going to look at.
They want the accredited piece of paper but they want the job experience more than anything and the more experience you have the better chance you have of getting a job.
to be able to do an assistantship in libraries like this one is just too good of an opportunity to pass out.
Well, how many left are there?
Wisconsin still has a legitimate library school.
I don't know how many of them.
Wisconsin, Drexel, UT Austin, UCLA, Pittsburgh has a library school, don't they?
Rosary College, yeah, Pittsburgh's got it.
How about Simmons?
Simmons does have a library school.
In Chicago, but it's called something else now.
It's now Dominican University.
Yeah.
Rutgers.
St.
John's in New York?
There's a school in Atlanta called Clark, I believe.
Okay.
There's about 20 programs that are still available.
But they are getting smaller.
Yeah, the cachet's not there anymore.
I mean, when Columbia closed, that was like, you know.
I feel good.
Yeah.
The person, Bob Wedgeworth, who was at Columbia, is the director here.
Oh, good.
I wanted you.
Good.
So you did meet Bob, because he's very interesting.
Because he was basically brought in to close down the school at Columbia, and a lot of people saw him as the savior.
And in fact, they had, my opinion is, they had made the decision when he went there.
So it was really not his fault that it closed.
That's a shame.
It's still a shame.
He was brought in to smooth it for everybody.
That's too good.
Yeah.
He's a very diplomatic person.
Barbara, who's the gentleman that said, Rachel, I suppose he's the one in 93, had U of I listed second to the...
University of Chicago, and then Chicago closed, and as she said, by default, we became number one.
It's a fairly well-known name, but I can't, it begins to be on the tip of my tongue.
He just does sort of a rating.
It's a rating.
I can't remember the name, but it's... Then there was a follow-up survey a few years later of actual librarians, and they found that based upon responses of alums of various different library schools, that the U of I was considered
So, this is a rating?
Is it published?
Yes.
It's published, and I can't remember that man's name.
It begins with a B. If you think of it, would you?
It's probably over in Library Science.
Oh, yes.
You can find it in Library Science.
I'm quite sure.
I don't quite know how many of you use all this, but it's very interesting.
If you're really exploring this concept of book culture.
Yeah.
Well, in my opinion, when Terry's program closed down at Columbia, that was a major blow because
That program was very special.
We, gee, I learned he would not only, it wasn't just the academic work he did, which was rigorous.
Terry was extremely rigorous.
And, oh, like we had to memorize Carter, ABCs of book collecting.
I mean, we had to get 100% on that test before we could pass the course.
And we had to do collation.
Yeah, I know.
But everything is touch, everything is hands-on.
Right.
And he just moved his whole book, I expressed, to Charlottesville.
He did, and it's fun in Charlottesville.
I love to be down there, and it's a really neat thing.
I could even live there.
Oh, yeah.
I could, too.
Really nice.
Terry talks about retirement down there, and he gives us all retirement literature.
And Terry's right now trying to figure out what's going to happen to his program when he retires.
And it's sad to me that he has to worry about that, because he's the only game in town.
Now, we tried to...
i tried to talk to the dean of the library school here about setting something up but distance learning just doesn't do it you have to touch the book and then i talked to university of alabama where they have a center for the book art and i talked to a woman in the library school there who used to work here and she said we have the program but you have the book so i said to marcella well let's see what can we do and i was trying to figure out a way that
Every summer, I could fly books down there and accompany the books.
That's how bad things are.
We've got the books here, but no program.
She's got the program, but no rare books at Alabama.
And Terry's program had it all.
And within an academic institution.
Yeah, and it's a specimen collection.
It's a lot of different things.
Right, so it was a really special thing.
A lot of us were really happy that we were in it.
Because the other thing is, in New York, you can do things like,
He would say, okay, you can take calligraphy downtown with Lily Longley.
So I took a calligraphy class on my off days.
I took Japanese papermaking with Tim Barrett when he was in town.
When the Twin Rocker paper people were in from Indiana, I worked with them.
I worked with Roger Hammity.
Terry would have people moving in and out.
In Charlottesville, you don't have that kind of movement that you have in New York City.
Or to go to the auction houses.
Or to go see Lucienne Goldschmidt.
Or to go to the Schimmel's townhouse to look at the show.
That's pretty good.
You know, that was the experience.
It was nine very intensive months.
Plus, we could get money, too.
Terry would call us and say, they need somebody to work at the auction house for an afternoon.
It's 35 bucks.
And then that would be our weekend money.
So there were no assistantships.
But my internship was at the Cooper Hewitt Museum Library.
So, you know, I just feel like that's a really lost opportunity.
The library school here, Lynn, you probably should address this instead of me, but it's almost as if one has to make a choice, or at least that's the way it appears to me, as to whether you're going to be a techie or you're going to be a
A book person.
Very much so.
What I found so far in the program is that... So they have programs for both, I get it.
It's supposed to be one program, and they really harp... Dean Esserbrook is very big on trying to close the great divide between information science and librarianship, but the way that the courses are set up, there really still is a big gap.
Either you're taking things like reference and cataloging,
and bibliography, or you're taking systems analysis, programming courses, things like that.
And the thing is that there isn't, as far as I understand it, a course, say, for librarians on how to understand systems in terms of this is how a system is set up, this is how you take apart a CPU, this is how you
this is how you put together a system, this is how you load software, that sort of thing.
There isn't a basics course, a computer basics for librarians so that you can understand, A, you can do sort of minor troubleshooting on your own, and B, you can understand when it's time to call the systems person and what they're telling you when they explain to you what's happened.
There really isn't a course that covers that.
So what happens is you sort of have to learn it on the fly, either through workshops, which are offered by the graduate assistants in the computer lab,
on your own.
I mean, I've learned sort of, I've learned database design and maintenance here because we've needed databases to create finding aids.
And since I've used Microsoft Access vaguely before, I've just sort of fucked until I figured it out and there's really no instruction otherwise.
And unfortunately, that's really what is happening.
And for the people who are in the library related courses, there are so few of them now because it's so heavily weighted towards information science and we have so many computer scientists on the library school faculty that
It's hard to get courses.
People only teach one section of things, so that I'm taking Arts and Humanities reference, for instance, this semester, which for a reference librarian is a pretty important thing to have.
There's only one section of it.
They only had 25 people in the section, and 80 or 100 people wanted to get in.
This may not be offered for another year.
Illinois also really pushes the fact that you can finish this program in a year, but if you can't get the courses you want, what's the point?
So there is a real divide in terms of information science and library science.
And I think it's a shame because I think that especially the way that technology is moving into the library so rapidly, it's really important for the traditional librarians to have a grasp on what's going on and to not be technophobic and to be able to deal with computers as part of their daily lives and to be able to just kind of move from that perspective.
And I also think it's important for the information scientists to see the library end of things.
to see where the library part fits in to what they do, because I think that often that isn't there either, that you're going to get computer scientists who don't see library applications to what they do.
Well, as a practical matter, looking for a job really would help you to have proficiency in the stuff.
Exactly.
I mean, most of the jobs that I've seen advertised, they want things like encoded archival description, SGML, HTML skills.
I don't have all of that, and it's
and if you're not a computer science the problem right now is we have cf people who are doing the info science end of things who are qualified for a lot of the library jobs but don't want them and then you have librarians who aren't doing the cf kind of stuff who have all the other skills but not the computer stuff and want the jobs but can't get them because they don't have the computer so where are the jobs today um where are they in terms of numbers in terms of places in terms of places i just applied for
a position at Brown and a position at Wesleyan in Connecticut and Rhode Island.
They're all over the place.
I watch Ex Libris.
That's really where I look for jobs because I'm so specialized in special collections and rare books.
So that's my main source of looking for jobs is Ex Libris.
There's lots of academic positions.
I think that the most growth is happening in the Southwest, I think.
Well, they're actually opening new colleges.
Yeah.
That's very interesting.
How do they build their collections from scratch?
Yeah, exactly.
We were talking last night about this Jewish Hebrew program that you're starting.
Right.
And when is that going on?
Are there any press releases on that you think that I could get?
Sure.
Oh, I can get all the material on the Drobne gift.
If I don't have it in my office, I'll send it.
Okay.
Yeah, it's really an exciting thing to start from scratch.
As I was saying last night, the funny thing to me is that a library of this caliber actually has the material we discovered, even the Yiddish material.
It had never been unpacked.
It's still in its boxes.
Where physically, where was it?
It's still in the sub-basement.
Well, I don't know.
It may be moved now because we're cataloging, but it was when I took Rabbi Newman down there, it was in the sub-basement of this building.
This building?
Yes.
Right.
How did you know it was there?
Actually, one of the maintenance people, one of the guys who's worked here.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And what did he tell you?
What did the person tell you?
Oh, he said, oh, yeah, it's down there on that.
Because a lot of these guys really love working here, and they... How did the conversation start, I wonder?
I mean...
well we went back you should see our stats you should see what nine million volumes looks like you really should see it it gives i still get goosebumps when i walk in there because the smell the um just the look of that many books um but anyway i'd like to do that yeah oh yeah well we should do that well maybe we should maybe i should go to carly
and maybe we should cancel the Cole Proust archive.
What is the archive?
It's an archive of the personal correspondence of Marcel Proust, and it was collected for basically the entire 20th century by a member of the faculty here.
and it's being digitized and so it will be available on the web.
It's an interesting project.
We have to be with Beth at 11 o'clock.
We just wanted to make sure that we could show you that we're trying to bridge the gap using electronics for something like Colt Cruz or for our emblem book project or for Cyber Shakespeare.
And in addition to having the books, I don't think there has to be an either or.
Why can't we just get more of both, you know?
I mean, why not?
Ask the people who provide the funding.
Yeah, it's an economic question.
Well, that was one of my questions this morning.
It's an economic question.
I just told her that I thought it was beautiful, and I could sit there all day and almost be in tears and just stare.
It's so, I don't know, it's just amazing for someone who loves something that much to get to see, like, the real thing.
What's your name?
Amanda.
And you're a freshman, sophomore?
Freshman.
Coming in from where?
From Illinois?
Yes, from Chicago.
Is this the first time you've ever seen what could be called a rare book?
Yes, sir.
And what you saw, was it Shakespeare stuff?
It was the first portfolio.
Oh, yeah.
Well, that's quite a treat.
I will tell you, you have a new privilege.
That's quite nice.
That's great.
I see a Barry Mosier huck finn over there.
Our Library Friends program last Tuesday was on Mark Twain and his relationship to his publishers.
And so we pulled a few things.
And then the other exhibit was Spanish devotional literature, and that was put together by a graduate seminar.
We let graduate seminar students put in exhibitions if they wanted.
Barbara, do you have any literature, publications, any special collections?
Anything that just... Nothing too updated, but I would be happy to pull together what we have.
That's something from 1950.
That's fine.
Anything anecdotal?
Sure.
We had a little story this morning about the founder of the university.
I mean, how is it that you have such an enormous library in the middle of these countries?
Right.
Yeah, yeah.
I could go on and on about that.
I'm from the Midwest, and I just think, I mean, farmers in their tractors are listening to the radio or listening to books on tape.
It's a very, Iowa has the highest literacy rate in the country, I think, or it used to.
I mean, people out here read.
They've always read.
And to have books on your shelf in the living room was a sign that you had made it beyond just being a farmer.
It was a real... You know, I won't go on and on about that, but it's a real... Well, you can go on and on.
Well, no, I mean, I wouldn't... Scholarly-wise, I mean, I've never measured it.
I just know that I grew up out here, and I know that everybody reads and always has, no matter what your job was.
I grew up in farm country in Iowa, and everybody read, and it was...
a source of great pride to have books on your shoes, even if you couldn't afford a new couch.
You know, there's one of the most amazing book cities I've ever been in, and I don't yet know how I'm going to put it in this new book, but Cleveland, for instance.
Oh, really?
You know, they have a wonderful public library, and they have very impressive collectors.
They have an institutional library, very interesting.
It's kind of the thing you're talking about, though.
Almost a sacred object.
Yeah, it is.
I grew up with the Iowa Public Library System, and the freedom to read statement that we base all our First Amendment work on, and the American Library Association was written at the Des Moines Public Library during McCarthyism.
No, I'm not.
It's a very strong reading community still.
Is that something that's published?
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Can I get it?
Oh, sure.
What do you call it again?
The freedom to read statement.
And it came out of Des Moines Public Library in the 50s as a response to McCarthy.
It's one of the first things that my other school students see.
Thank goodness.
That's something else I would like to, I mean, I've spent, my professional specialty is the First Amendment.
And when you get a program where people are learning specialties like HTML or whatever, it's too easy to forget the big picture being that we're really here,
to provide access in a very activist way, in my opinion.
I mean, we are here to provide all points of view, whatever people want, without any kind of censorship.
And fortunately, our library directors feel strongly about that here, but a lot of them don't.
A lot of them are coming out of the whole management paradigm now, sort of Dilbert's thing.
So you went to the Columbia program?
And when were you there?
I was there in, I was there in 77 and 78.
I worked at the university.
Cincinnati's a good example.
The city of Cincinnati is a great book town, and it's, well, it's not exactly in the middle of the country, but it's, you know.
And I worked at the Cincinnati library, at the university library, and across the street is Hebrew Union College, which is a great library.
And downtown, the public library was chartered as a research library.
Plus, there were a couple of private, there were Mercantile libraries.
So yeah, and then I went into Terry's program.
So you studied under Terry?
Yeah, and decided to go into their books.
Went into, got snookered into library management.
I was a library director in three different institutions, and was miserable, and decided to go back into their books.
You're from Des Moines?
I grew up in Iowa, Des Moines and in Washington, Iowa, actually, a really small farm town, and very smart.
Stephen Blumberg just went on trial again two weeks ago.
Has that been NX Lubris, by the way?
I think it has been.
Yeah, they keep up the conviction.
I don't think they put up the conviction.
They put up that he got caught again.
And they, of course, had a big sounding when he got out of jail the first time.
Oh, yeah, but I mean, he was... That's right, the Atomal Connection.
I'm talking about Iowa and literacy.
It's kind of funny.
Yeah.
Numbers and special corrections?
We have about 500,000 volumes and then about 700 cubic feet of manuscript.
700?
Yeah.
And then we have... Linear.
Cubic.
And our big collections are proofed.
It's the largest after the Biblioteque National.
Wow.